# cpp
learn and practice with cpp

* [Object file](#object-file-obj-o)
* [Keywords](#keywords)
    * [Extern](#extern)

## Object File (*.obj, *.o)
A C++ object file is an intermediate file produced by a C++ compiler from a C++ implementation file and the C++ header files that the implementation file includes. The C++ linker produces the output executable or library of your project from your C++ object files.

Object files (or object code) are machine code files generated by a compiler from source code.

The difference with an executable is that the object file isn't linked, so references to functions, symbols, etc aren't defined yet (their memory addresses is basically left blank).


Object files (or object code) are machine code files generated by a compiler from source code.

The difference with an executable is that the object file isn't linked, so references to functions, symbols, etc aren't defined yet (their memory addresses is basically left blank).

When you compile a C file with GCC:

```
gcc -Wall -o test test.c
```

Here you are compiling AND linking. So you'll got an executable, containing all the memory addresses references for the symbols it contains (libraries, headers, etc).

But when you do this:

```
gcc -Wall -o test.o -c test.c
```

You'll produce and object file. It's also machine code, but it will need to be linked in order to produce an executable, or a library.

When you have a project with many C files (for instance), you'll compile each one into object code, and then you will link all object files together in order to produce the final product.

For instance:
```
gcc -Wall -o foo.o -c foo.c              // Object file for foo.c
gcc -Wall -o bar.o -c bar.c              // Object file for bar.c
gcc -Wall -o main.o -c main.c            // Object file for main.c
gcc -Wall -o software foo.o bar.o main.o // Executable (foo + bar + main)
```

## Keywords
### Extern
The extern keyword in C++ is used to declare a global variable or function which can be accessed from any part of the program or from other files included in the program's header. The variables or functions declared with the extern keyword will have a larger scope than normally declared variables. Those variables can be accessed from any part of the program

extern keyword in C applies to C variables (data objects) and C functions. Basically, the extern keyword extends the visibility of the C variables and C functions. That’s probably the reason why it was named extern

Though most people probably understand the difference between the “declaration” and the “definition” of a variable or function, for the sake of completeness, let’s clarify it

* **Declaration** of a variable or function simply declares that the variable or function exists somewhere in the program, but the memory is not allocated for them. The declaration of a variable or function serves an important role–it tells the program what its type is going to be. In the case of function declarations, it also tells the program the arguments, their data types, the order of those arguments, and the return type of the function. So that’s all about the declaration.
* Coming to the **definition**, when we define a variable or function, in addition to everything that a declaration does, it also allocates memory for that variable or function. Therefore, we can think of the definition as a superset of the declaration (or declaration as a subset of the definition).
* Extern is a short name for external.
* The extern variable is used when a particular files need to access a variable from another file.

#### Syntax of extern
The syntax to define an extern variable in C++ is just to use the extern keyword before the variable declaration.

```
extern data_type variable_name;
```

Example of extern
```
#include <iostream> 
  
int a;            // int var;  ->  declaration and definition 
extern int b;     // extern int var;  -> declaration 
                  
  
int main()  
{   
   std::cout << b << std::endl;    
   return 0; 
}
```

#### Properties of extern Variable
* When we write extern some_data_type some_variable_name;  no memory is allocated. Only the property of the variable is announced.

* The extern variable says to the compiler  “Go outside my scope and you will find the definition of the variable that I declared.”

* The compiler believes that whatever that extern variable said is true and produces no error. Linker throws an error when it finds no such variable exists.

* When an extern variable is initialized, then memory for this is allocated and it will be considered defined.

A variable or function can be declared any number of times, but it can be defined only once. (Remember the basic principle that you can’t have two locations of the same variable or function).

